# Usage

This guide explains how to build and run Ryzer containers using the Python calls.


## Building a Docker Image with Ryzers

To build a Docker image for a specific package, use the following command:

```bash
ryzers build <package_name>
ryzers build --name <imagename> <package_name>
```
For example, to build the genesis package:

```bash
ryzers build genesis
ryzers build --name myimage genesis
```
## Running a Docker Image with Ryzers

```bash
ryzers run                         # Runs the last built image
ryzers run --name <imagename>      # Runs the imagename image
ryzers run bash                    # Runs the last build image with "bash" command
ryzers run --name <imagename> bash # Runs the imagename image with "bash" command
```



---


## `ryzers build`

The `ryzers build` command is a Python entry point that simplifies the process of building Docker images on AMD platforms. It takes the name of a package as an argument, locates the corresponding `Dockerfile`, and builds the image using the specified base image and `config.yaml` configuration.

### How It Works

When you run `ryzers build`, the command:
1. Reads the `config.yaml` file for the specified package to determine build arguments, environment variables, and dependencies.
2. Uses the `Dockerfile` associated with the package to build the image.
3. Tags the resulting Docker image with the package name for easy reference.
4. Generates a run script that can be called indepently or with the `ryzers run` call below.  This script includes all the run flags required to call the Docker image.


## `ryzers run`
The `ryzers run` command is another Python entry point that simplifies running Docker containers. It takes the name of a package as an argument and starts a container based on the previously built image. AMD specific docker run flags are generated based on `config.yaml` entries.  You can also pass an optional command to override the default behavior of the container.

### How It Works

When you run `ryzers run`, the command:
1. Finds the correct run script generated by `ryzers build` and calls it.  If no package name is given, the last built ryzer package is used.
2. Optionally allows you to override the default command specified in the `Dockerfile`.


